For the 2nd project, I wish to develop a website that provides helpful tips and tricks for those interested in creating their own designs and outfits or those who would like to try their hand at repairing their own garments. The style of garments would primarily cater to an audience of a similar age group as my own: college students; theirs is a style I am better acquainted with, however, any style that catches my eye would be included in the site.

There are several DIY sewing and crafts websites of various sizes such as Threads, The Seasoned Homemaker, DIY & Crafts, Sweet Red Poppy and All For Fashion Design. Threads focuses on clothing and fashion design, while the other websites provide information on other DIY projects as well, for example, accessories, hairstyles, cooking, quilting and knitting to name a few. The sites are set up like blogs, with emphasis on providing featured or the most recent content from the first page a visitor sees. They all have a main navigation bar at the top of their webpages, with their main content categories and a link to the home page. For those put together by a specific person, there are options to learn about the person or contact them, and for sites like The Seasoned Homemaker they are in a separate top navigation bar.

Threads is a large site with a variety of resource formats-articles, how-to guides, videos and magazines-through which to provide information. As a commercial site, their pages have advertisement breaks that interrupt the flow of information, particularly for step-by-step tutorials. They section the pages to give room for featured posts, videos and to advertise their magazine. Fortunately, this content comes to the side or after the main article content. While I understand the pain of presenting a lot of information, the pages do seem rather cluttered for my liking. I do like their use of decently-sized images and the inclusion of resources required for a project in its article. There is the option for a PDF version of the post.

The Seasoned Homemaker has a more personal feel despite having a sizeable amount of information as well. There are advertisements on the page, but they are all kept to the side of the post. Every page has a section with a short introduction to the creator of the website to the side of content. The posts are represented by their title and a related image. This certainly makes the page look less cluttered, but some articles titles are cut short and one must roll over the image for the full text. Nonetheless, the set-up is much more attractive to me. The color choice and simple design also makes for a pleasant browsing experience.

DIY & Crafts also has a more personal feel with a playful color scheme, although the color choices do not provide sufficient contrast between content and backgrounds. Although posts are presented in the standard blog fashion, the elements are arranged and spaced out so that the list does not seem crowded. The font size is also sufficient for comfortable reading of posts. Images and photos are conveniently provided throughout posts as well as a printable Pinterest photo at the end of tutorials. I like that a table of contents is available for longer posts, but it is only available at the top of the post. There are also breadcrumbs at the top of a post for convenient retracing of steps.

Sweet Red Poppy is also a website with a personal feel and simple design that uses images extensively, giving suggestions of content through a carousel slideshow on the home page and giving links to key categories using image buttons. Lists of posts are divided into two to three columns, with each post summary having a prominent image and a brief text description. This chunking of elements into blocks and the arrangement of these blocks makes for a clean layout. There is advertising space provided at the bottom of the screen through a fixed container, but one can close it if they wish. Although the color scheme is attractive, the chosen secondary content color does not contrast as much as it could with the website's white background.

All For Fashion Design has a color scheme with colors that provide great contrast between content and backgrounds. Their advertisements are kept at the bottom and to the side of posts. Posts are presented in a standard blog fashion, but the post elements are arranged and spaced out so that the list does not seem crowded, as in DIY & Crafts. The font size could certainly be increased for more comfortable reading.

While setting the website up as a blog makes sense considering the number of posts available on such websites, the standard manner of displaying blog posts could be improved with more of an emphasis on images to give an idea of the content (descriptive alternative text will certainly be provided) like in The Seasoned Homemaker and sweet Red Poppy. I shall focus on organizing a page's content so it is well-spaced out and paced for convenient browsing, and maintaining the personal touch a blog provides with conversational post content but with a lower word count. I shall incorporate the elements I liked from the five websites, and account for those I believe could be improved. My target audience will be a more focused group than that of the sites mentioned above, primarily catering to college students and those with a similar taste in fashion as mine.

To develop the content for this website, I shall gather information from these sites and other design and sewing resources online, Pinterest and perhaps include a couple of my own designs and tips from personal experience. It will not contain as much content, but the site structure could form the foundation for a larger clothing and accessories DIY site that serves as a platform on which to share ideas I collect or contrive.
